##2015-12-30

### 10:51
Today's plan is to bootstrap the ASP.NET MVC project and the Nodejs pipeline to build the frontend.

I'm willing to indulge in minor future-proofing in the spirit of learning, especially on a purely internal project. So I'm planning a couple of pieces of exploration. Since I work at Pivotal, I'm hoping to use Pivotal UI to jumpstart building the user interface for the project. Pivotal UI includes a bunch of CSS that will be useful immediately, plus React components that should help when it's time to implement features like search.

Since the app provides a lot of potentially google-worthy content, server-side rendering would be nice. Still, I've often found that server-side rendering pulls UI concerns into the server, and because you're likely to eventually have *some* frontend JavaScript, you end up with some JS templates and some C#/Java/Ruby templates. Since React is a popular UI framework and there's a Facebook-sponsored project (citation-needed?) providing .NET support, I'm hoping we can work something out where the React templates can be rendered server-side where appropriate.

So the goals for now are: set up the git repository, get the site running locally, get the build running on travis.ci, and get the initial UI pushed to PWS or to Pivotal's on-prem Cloud Foundry instance (PEZ).


### 11:15

Right now, I'm pulling in the Pivotal UI team's starter project and looking at their documentation. The Pivotal UI team has a sample project with a Gulp-based build pipeline already set up. I'm not familiar with one of their dependencies, Webpack, so I'll probably take this as a starting point, make sure that I can get it all working, and start culling pieces that aren't needed.

### 11:18

```
$ echo "node_modules/" >> .gitignore
$ echo ".DS_Store" >> .gitignore
```

### 11:28

Some misgivings about taking the Pivotal UI starter project at face value. I considered dropping it into the UI subproject for this new repo, but instead I think I'll keep the Pivotal UI docs open in a Chrome tab and set up the frontend app on my own.

### 11:40

Hmm. Pivotal UI uses npm for frontend dependencies instead of bower. I'd rather use Bower, and this is starting to feel like a rabbit hole. I think I can backtrack a bit to just get gulp and bower set up, then pick and choose pivotal ui components to add as bower dependencies later, since bower can install npm packages.

### 12:06

On my last .NET project, we used the IIS webserver to host our web application. IIS is a bit like Apache Webserver with `mod_php`  or `mod_ruby` installed. IIS works out of the box as a static webserver, and can be configured to recognize compiled .NET code and related assets and run these under a .NET virtual machine. The new cross-platform dnx runtime introduces a different webserver, Kestrel, which is more like the in-process webservers that will be familiar to Ruby/Java/Nodejs programmers.

Since IIS handled static files pretty sensibly, on that previous project we compiled our .NET code and copied it to a special IIS directory, then `cp`ed our assets into the `public/` folder under that directory. IIS had special configuration to serve our app correctly, and this ended up being the cleanest way to serve the static assets and the REST Api from the same directory in production.

A big goal this time around is to deploy this app as a 12-factor app. The best part will be that webserver and routing configuration will come out of the IIS user interface and land in configuration-as-code and generally be handled by the CF or Heroku platforms.

There's a tension here between two of this project's goals: being 12-factor and demonstrating patterns for .NET projects in general. Teams with a long history with IIS are already tooled up to deploy to IIS, and running a static webserver may feel awkward. People may still be deploying to IIS for a long time, and the 12-factor design of this app may make it unnatural to deploy to IIS without modification.

### 1:36
Right now, I'm feeling very happy with the progress so far. I think I'll be able to push to CF today or early tomorrow, which will open up the door to proper feature stories. That's got me thinking about the D&F process that Pivotal Labs projects normally go through, and what would be an effective 1-person version of that for a small project that has both product and project goals, or a side project with few stakeholders but a developer who's passionate about executing on some form of an idea.

After all, the logic developers used for a long time with moderate success was "build something you would use". That's how a lot of early popular software originated, and I think that the developer's gut still has some value as a source of project ideas. So how do we domesticate that wild gut with de-risking and focusing tools of the agile d&f?

### 4:45
Coming back to tackle setting up the static file compilation

### 5:37
Seems to work. This was the important page of Microsoft documentation: http://docs.asp.net/en/latest/fundamentals/static-files.html.
Interesting, no VS Code yet today. C# editing has been light.

Pushing to CF was easy, but I had also tried the DNX buildpack already once:
https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/asp.net5-buildpack
Big thanks to Github user @opiethehokie

### 10:41
Circled back to take a look at the Pivotal UI materials to see the components and think about building them into a sensible UI.