# 2016-01-07

### 12:30
the last couple of days were largely unremarkable, but now getting into the .NET code, things are starting to get interesting. It's frustrating to learn a new editor, and I'm definitely not as productive as I would be using Visual Studio on a Windows machine with ReSharper.

### 10:55
After a little bit of effort, I've now got Autofac working. Adding Nuget dependencies today was interesting. For all three dependencies I wanted to add, it was nice being able to add them from the regular old bash terminal, but there were oddities about each:

1) `Moq`. I had to remove `dnxcore50` from the list of supported frameworks for the api test assembly. `Moq` uses the castle proxies package, which depends on the full .NET framework. There's a pull request to make it work, but for now it's nice and easy to just ignore Coreclr, since the tests will always run on a machine with either Microsoft's .NET or the Mono implementation. https://github.com/Moq/moq4/pull/225

2) `RestSharp`: Basically the same case as `Moq`, except in this instance the blocking dependency is on `System.Net.Http`, which is distributed as a Nuget package for Coreclr. Like Moq, there's a github issue tracking what needs to change, and the fix seems trivial. I really wanted to clone the repo, try it, and issue a pull request, but I'm just a little disoriented by the tooling and would prefer to try it out on a Windows machine. https://github.com/restsharp/RestSharp/issues/664

I didn't want to rule out Coreclr for the actual API code, So I decided to work around this by giving up on RestSharp and using System.Net.Http, which wasn't hard to integrate, though it's a lower-level api and I did get myself pretty confused by trying to `dnu install *Microsoft*.Net.Http` several times -_-.

3) `Autofac` has a lot of individual nuget packages, and it wasn't initially clear what was needed. This was the first time that I realized that `Asp.Net 5` comes with `MVC 6`, and once I realized I should be googling MVC 6 and not 5, I found the snippets explaining how to wire up Autofac without trouble. I'm hoping that for folks used to Java's annotation-based dependency injection, the simple constructor injection that Autofac achieves with .NET's runtime generics will be compelling.

I've realized that I don't like the VS Code color scheme, and the number of colors in the syntax highlighting is pretty limited compared to IntelliJ/Webstorm. I spent a little bit of time poking around in the docs about adding language support to IntelliJ. I'm tempted to try it now, since it seems like having the BNF for C# will make much of the basic stuff easy.

I'm also not finding automatic refactorings for variable extraction and other important features in VS Code. All in all, today was a pretty rough day for my morale about the recomendability of VS Code as a serious alternative to Visual Studio on Windows, though I'm finding the command-line experience of `dnu` and `dnx` totally enjoyable.